In the last lectures, we made push messages work,
we show a notification from our service worker and you saw it works across device of course with our different
subscriptions.
Now I want to allow the user to interact with notifications, we already listen to notification click but
we don't do anything there except for closing the notification.
So the goal now is to actually open a new page and we can do this with the following code,
let's say we want to do that in all cases where the action isn't confirm.
So here where I console log the action,
I will add a new code snippet and I will say event wait until to make sure the service worker doesn't continue
or doesn't continue, waits for me to actually finish this code, to finish opening a new page.
Inside there, the following code allows us to open a new page.
We can execute clients and this basically refers to all windows or all browser tasks related to this
service worker.
We can call match all to get access to them all
and this returns us a promise where in the function of this promise, we get access to all found clients.
Again, this refers to things managed by the service worker to simplify it.
Now inside here, I now want to find windows managed by this service worker which are visible,
so open windows where our application runs in
would be a fitting translation. To identify the first window of our application,
even if we have multiple ones, I'm only interested in one window, I'll create a variable which I'll name client
and I will access all the clients I found and use the find helper method,
this normal Javascript method which exists on arrays and clients is just an array,
so this is just an array here, I should say.
So it will execute a function on each element in this array and I'll pass this element as c into that
function
and now we have to return true or false. If we return true, that means
yes we found the element we are looking for
and this will then be stored in client.
If we return false, we say it's not the right one
and if we return false for all iterations, we got none, the first time we return true,
it will stop though and that will be our found object.
So here I will simply return a boolean check where I see for the element I'm checking,
so c is the individual element in that array, if the visibility state is equal to visible which means
we have an open browser window basically,
this will then be stored in client.
So next I of course want to check if client is unequal to undefined which means we found an object,
we found open window.
In this case I simply want to navigate to a URL with the navigate helper method,
maybe I want to navigate to http://localhost:8080 just like that
and then I also want to focus that window,
so I will call focus. Else if we didn't have it open, then I want to open a new one with the clients object
now again, giving us access to the things managed by the service worker
and there's a helper method called open window which will open a new window or actually by default a
tab which opens the given URL, so http://localhost:8080 too.
This should basically ensure that if we tap the notification, we either load our application in a tab the user
already had open, to not unnecessarily open a new one or if the user didn't have our application open,
maybe the whole browser was closed,
we open a new tab, maybe even a new browser window with our application loaded.
This is what I want to do here
and once all of that is done, so after this if else statement, I'll close the notification.
This is the goal,
this is what I want to do,
now let's head back and see if it works. For that in my application,
I installed a new service worker or I updated it,
so let's refresh the page to install it and let's then reopen it to activate the new service worker
and now subscription and all is still set up,
let's create a new post and see if click works.
Let me click post here
and now it opened a notification.
I'll click on it and you saw it refreshed the page because it reloaded it, should be even clearer,
does it really work
if I change something else? I'll post it and now close this tab
and now if I click the notification, it reopens it.
So this is how it works, this is how we can handle the notification click
and of course this also works on the mobile device.
Now there is of course the one thing which isn't optimal right now,
we hardcode the to be opened URL into the service worker
and that's of course bad, if that ever changes,
we have to add the service worker and even worse than that, for most notifications,
the URL isn't always the same. If we push a message about a new blog post,
we probably want a link to that blog post,
we can't hardcode that URL into our front-end. So in the next lecture, I will show you how you can
pass data from your server to your push message to your service worker to this notification click handler.
See you there.